.TH LIBNCIPHER "3" "2016年4月" "LIBNCIPHER"
.SH 名前
libncipher \- n_cipher（にゃんぱす暗号・N暗号）ライブラリのC言語向け実装
.SH 書式
\fB#include <n_cipher.h>\fR
.br

.br
\fB#define SEED        "にゃんぱす\\0"\fR    /* デフォルトのシードを使用するための定義 */
.br
\fB#define DELIMITER   "〜\\0"\fR            /* デフォルトのデリミタを使用するための定義 */
.br

.br
\fBint check_seed_overlap_n_cipher(const char* seed);\fR
.br
\fBchar* encode_n_cipher(const char* string, const char* seed, const char* delimiter);\fR
.br
\fBchar* decode_n_cipher(const char* string, const char* seed, const char* delimiter);\fR
.SH "説明"
.TP
check_seed_overlap_n_cipher()
文字列がシード値として有効であるかを確認する関数。
.br
ここでの有効な文字列とは、文字の重複が存在せず、2文字かそれ以上の文字数を満たした文字列の事を指す。
.br
戻り値は、有効な文字列であれば偽、無効であれば0以上の整数、処理中の例外であれば0以下の整数がセットされる。
.TP
encode_n_cipher()
文字列をN暗号で暗号化する関数。
.br
第一引数\fIstring\fRへ暗号化する文字列、第二引数\fIseed\fRへシード文字列、第三引数\fIdelimiter\fRへデリミタ文字列を指定する。
.br
戻り値は、暗号化が成功した場合、暗号化された配列（文字列）の先頭アドレスがセットされ、また、失敗の場合NULLとなる。
.br
.TP
decode_n_cipher()
文字列をN暗号で復号化する関数。
.br
第一引数\fIstring\fRへ復号化する文字列、第二引数\fIseed\fRへシード文字列、第三引数\fIdelimiter\fRへデリミタ文字列を指定する。
.br
戻り値は、復号化が成功した場合、復号化された配列（文字列）の先頭アドレスがセットされ、また、失敗の場合NULLとなる。
.br
.SH 注意
本ライブラリはUnicode(UCS-2, UCS-4)のコードポイントを用いている為、その他のエンコーディングが為されている環境では用いる事は不可能。
.br
encode_n_cipher()またはdecode_n_cipher()で戻り値としてセットされたアドレスは、適宜、free()システムコールで開放することを推奨する。
.SH 謝辞
オリジナルはruby向けの実装であり、作者は@844196さんです。
.br
他言語への移植を好意的に捉えて下さった事に対し、この場で感謝を申し上げます。
.SH 作者
sasairc (@sasairc)
.SH 著作権
Copyright (c) 2015 sasairc
.br

.br
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.br
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.br
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.br
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.br
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.br
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.br

.br
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.br
copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.br
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.br
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.br
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.br
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.br
DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.br
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE
.br
OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
 
.SH 関連項目
.B n_cipher
.B renge
.B yasuna
.B clangsay
